## Algorithm

[232. Implement Queue using Stacks](https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-queue-using-stacks/)

### Description

Implement a first in first out (FIFO) queue using only two stacks. The implemented queue should support all the functions of a normal queue (push, peek, pop, and empty).

Implement the MyQueue class:

- void push(int x) Pushes element x to the back of the queue.
- int pop() Removes the element from the front of the queue and returns it.
- int peek() Returns the element at the front of the queue.
- boolean empty() Returns true if the queue is empty, false otherwise.

Notes:

You must use only standard operations of a stack, which means only push to top, peek/pop from top, size, and is empty operations are valid.
Depending on your language, the stack may not be supported natively. You may simulate a stack using a list or deque (double-ended queue) as long as you use only a stack's standard operations.


Example 1:

```
Input
["MyQueue", "push", "push", "peek", "pop", "empty"]
[[], [1], [2], [], [], []]
Output
[null, null, null, 1, 1, false]

Explanation
MyQueue myQueue = new MyQueue();
myQueue.push(1); // queue is: [1]
myQueue.push(2); // queue is: [1, 2] (leftmost is front of the queue)
myQueue.peek(); // return 1
myQueue.pop(); // return 1, queue is [2]
myQueue.empty(); // return false
```

Constraints:

- 1 <= x <= 9
- At most 100 calls will be made to push, pop, peek, and empty.
- All the calls to pop and peek are valid.

Follow-up: Can you implement the queue such that each operation is amortized O(1) time complexity? In other words, performing n operations will take overall O(n) time even if one of those operations may take longer.

### Solution

```java
class MyQueue {

    Stack<Integer> stack1 = new Stack<>();
    Stack<Integer> stack2 = new Stack<>();

    /** Initialize your data structure here. */
    public MyQueue() {

    }

    /** Push element x to the back of queue. */
    public void push(int x) {
        stack1.push(x);
    }

    /** Removes the element from in front of queue and returns that element. */
    public int pop() {
        while(stack1.size()>1){
            stack2.push(stack1.pop());
        }
        int result = stack1.pop();
        while(stack2.size()>0){
            stack1.push(stack2.pop());
        }
        return result;
    }

    /** Get the front element. */
    public int peek() {
        while(stack1.size()>1){
            stack2.push(stack1.pop());
        }
        int result = stack1.peek();
        while(stack2.size()>0){
            stack1.push(stack2.pop());
        }
        return result;
    }

    /** Returns whether the queue is empty. */
    public boolean empty() {
        return stack1.isEmpty() && stack2.isEmpty();
    }
}

/**
 * Your MyQueue object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * MyQueue obj = new MyQueue();
 * obj.push(x);
 * int param_2 = obj.pop();
 * int param_3 = obj.peek();
 * boolean param_4 = obj.empty();
 */
```

### Discuss

在push数据的时候，只要数据放进输入栈就好，但在pop的时候，操作就复杂一些，输出栈如果为空，就把进栈数据全部导入进来（注意是全部导入），再从出栈弹出数据，如果输出栈不为空，则直接从出栈弹出数据就可以了。

最后如何判断队列为空呢？如果进栈和出栈都为空的话，说明模拟的队列为空了。

## Review


## Tip


## Share
